Hi, this is the lecture on Effect size,
significance and modeling.
In every statistics course ever taught,
they go over this exact phrase.
Statistical significance is
not practical significance.
And that's a discussion of the fact
that just by reasons of having a large
N you can detect very miniscule but
unimportant effects.
But I think the picture is a lot
more complicated than that.
And in this lecture we're gonna
talk about these instances.
What does it mean to get a significant or
a non significant result
in hypothesis testing.
And here we have two funny cartoons.
If you wanna find more cartoons like this,
I highly recommend looking up research
Mark Wahlberg and statistics Ryan Gosling.
Anyway, they're very funny.
So let's go through some
thought experiments.
So a very large epidemiological
study of nutrition finds a slightly
significant result,
P of 0.049, so a P value,
right under what is the typical
standard of evidence in this area,
associating hot dog consumption
to colorectal cancer incidence.
So the question I would ask to you is
does the larger sample size bolster
the evidence or hinder it?
So in this case does the fact that they
have a giant study, does that suggest oh,
okay well that means that
it was really powerful,
a really powerful study and
we should trust it.
Or does it mean, oh wait,
they barely achieved significance
despite having a giant study.
Are we only getting at some sorta
quirk of the large sample size.
And in fact, this is kinda
unresolved question in statistics.
It's not clear in this setting or
in many settings,
what the information that the study was a
very large study, the end was very large,
how that contributes to the strength
of evidence for this specific p value.
So if it seems confusing,
it's because it is confusing.
I think you could probably go ask
all the top statisticians and
you would get different answers.
Let's consider another thought experiment.
A well done AB test,
you had nice randomization,
there wasn't a lot of missing data,
the sample was very good.
Finds one ad campaign is not significantly
better than another, p value
that's just above the standard threshold
for significance, for online purchases.
And in this case, does the good
study design bolster confidence in
the lack of significance or not?
Okay?
It's basically the same question,
does the fact that you have this
really good study design say,
okay, well we had a really
good study design and
the p value is really just right around
marginal so it's not significant and
it should have been significant
because this design was so good.
That's one way you could think about it.
Another way to think about it is well,
it's really borderline.
And maybe if n had been a little
bit larger, we might have rejected.
So again, the point I'm trying to make
here is that context is important.
And we cannot simply interpret the result
of hypothesis test outside of the context.
It's basically the idea that P values and
the results of hypothesis tests
are not portable across settings.
They're not kinda a unit free,
context free quantities that you can
just take from one experiment and
interpret a p value of .04, and interpret
it in the same way in the next experiment.
So among other things,
the size of the effect matters.
And the size of the effect
is lost when you just report
the result of a hypothesis test or
the p value by itself.
So the size of the effect matters, okay.
So usually you want in addition to the p
value to actually see the actual estimate.
If there is a difference in means you
wanna see the difference in means.
So if the number of purchases and
percentage of click through purchases for
ad campaign one, minus the percentage
of click through purchases for
ad campaign two, as an example.
You actually wanna see that effect and
not just see the P value.
But also the context of
the problem matters.
What strength of evidence is
required in this setting?
What constitutes strong
evidence in highly controlled
physics experiments is very different
than what constitutes as evidence
in very large epidemiological
studies of nutrition.
Another question is what
level of error is tolerable?
You may be in a circumstance where
you're testing A versus B but
you have to make a decision
between the two.
So, you can tolerate
a different level of evidence
because you're gonna have to pick one or
the other.
So unless the evidence
is perfectly equivocal,
you're gonna take evidence
slightly in favor of A and
go with A, or evidence slightly
in favor of B and go with B.
Contrast to this was something like
a regulatory agency like the Food and
Drug Administration that has to prevent
dangerous drugs from going to market.
There they put very high
scrutiny on the amount of information and
evidence required to
bring a drug to market because they don't
want dangerous drugs to go to market.
So the standard of evidence in those
two circumstances is very different.
So the result of a hypothesis test just
can't be interpreted in the same way.
Another question is, of course,
what biases are likely present?
If you have a giant sample that's
very biased, then you might be
finding an effect, but that effect
may just be detecting that bias.
And another thing that comes up
often is multiple comparisons.
Did someone just fish around until
they got a significant result.
Okay they kept testing different
hypothesis until they got
a significant result.
And we'll talk about some of
these various concepts in
subsequent lectures because I think
they're important enough to drill down on.
So let's just summarize.
So hypothesis testing is a tool.
But it rarely should be used in isolation.
So if you're managing someone and they're
just reporting P values by themselves or
the result of hypothesis test you
need to push them to go further.
You need to push them to
give you effect sizes
push them to give you
confidence intervals.
To put the results into the proper
context of what's being studied,
to contrast the results with other related
studies and that sorta information.
So in other words there is no substitute
for critical review of results in context.
Confidence intervals studies the effects.
And other tools like this should be
used in addition to hypothesis tests.
So three tools we're gonna discuss
specifically is we're gonna talk about
evaluating multiplicity concerns, to make
sure that the person you're managing
hasn't fished through hypotheses until
they found that one that was significant.
Another really useful tool is comparing
effect sizes to other known effects.
And then a third very useful tool
is negative control analyses.
So we're gonna go over all three of
these in the next couple of lectures.